CloudHub Mule Log Feature (#482)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/viewing-log-data.adoc

image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> CloudHub provides access to log data that includes deployment messages and events for each worker and logs for Mule runtime engine.

Reviewer: A little thought about avoiding "to log data that includes...logs for...":
```suggestion
CloudHub provides access to log data that includes worker deployment messages and events and Mule runtime engine logs.
```

+
See xref:custom-log-appender.adoc[Integrate with Your Logging System Using Log4j].

== View Logs

To view logs for applications deployed to CloudHub:

. In Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. In the Runtime Manager navigation menu, click *Applications*, and then click the application name.
. In the navigation menu, click *Logs*.
+

> The console displays the application logs.

Reviewer: Second sentence nec.?

. In the *Deployments* section, filter the output by day, deployment, system log, and workers.
+
To remove a filter, deselect the checkbox for the date:
+
.The arrow shows the checkbox to filter log output by deployment in the *Deployments* section.
image::cloudhub-logs-deploy.png[Filter log output by deployment in the Deployments section]

== Download Logs

> For each worker in a CloudHub deployment, you can download separate logs:

Reviewer: Here's an alternative for you to take or leave:
```suggestion
For each worker in a CloudHub deployment, you can download logs specific to that worker's activity:
```

. In the *Deployments* section, select the date and worker for which you want to download logs.

> . Click the download icon for the worker, and select *Logs*:

Reviewer: See Line 92; comma not nec.:
```suggestion
. Click the download icon for the worker and select *Logs*:
```

+
.The arrow shows the icon to download log output by deployment in the *Deployments* section.
image::cloudhub-logs-download.png[Download log output by worker in the Deployments section]

> CloudHub downloads the log output to a text file with the extension `.log` in the format `__deploymentID__.__instanceID__-__workerNumber__.log`.

Reviewer: How about omitting repetition of the extension?
```suggestion
CloudHub downloads the log output to a text file in the format `__deploymentID__.__instanceID__-__workerNumber__.log`.
```

> You can view the log file with a text editor.

Reviewer: Nonmodal-verb alternative:
```suggestion
Use a text editor to view the log file.
```

To archive or download CloudHub application logs for audit, analytics, or other purposes at regular intervals, use the custom log appender to extract logs.
See xref:custom-log-appender.adoc[Integrate with Your Logging System Using Log4j].

== Download Diagnostics

Diagnostics display the Java thread dump of each CloudHub worker in each deployment. These indicate the current state of the server, which is helpful for debugging and support.

Diagnostics are not available for apps running on Mule versions earlier than 3.8.0 (excluding version 3.7.4).

To download diagnostics:

 . In the *Deployments* section, select the date and worker for which you want to download diagnostics.
. Click the download icon for the worker and select *Diagnostics*:
+
.The arrow shows the icon to download diagnostics by worker in the *Deployments* section.
image::cloudhub-logs-diag-download.png[Download diagnostics by worker in the Deployments section]

CloudHub downloads the diagnostic output to a text file with the extension `.txt` in the format `__appName__-instance-__instanceID__-__workerNumber__-diag.txt`. 

> You can view this file with a text editor.

Reviewer: See edit comments at Lines 53-4.

[TIP]
====
You can also use the following URL to download a diagnostics file directly:

`api/v2/applications/__appName__/instances/__instanceId__/diagnostics`
====

== Download Mule Logs

Mule logs display the logs of the Mule runtime engine for CloudHub.
The Mule log contains information about app and lifecycle events.
For example, the log records an entry when a Mule service or app starts, deploys, stops, or undeploys.

 . In the *Deployments* section, select the date and worker for which you want to download Mule logs.
 . Click the download icon for the worker and select *Mule Logs*:
+
.The arrow shows the icon to download Mule log output by deployment in the *Deployments* section.
image::cloudhub-logs-mule-download.png[Download Mule log output in the Deployments section]

CloudHub downloads the Mule log output to a text file with the extension `.log` in the format `__appName__-instance-__instanceID__-__workerNumber__-mule_ee.log`.

> You can view the log file with a text editor.

Reviewer: See edit comments at Lines 53-4.
